[music]
Hello and welcome to another Working from Home episode of No Such Thing as a Fish,
a weekly podcast coming to you from four undisclosed locations in the UK.
My name is Dan Schreiber, I am sitting here with James Harkin,
Andrew Hunter Murray and Anna Czenski and once again we have gathered around the microphones
with our four favourite facts from the last seven days and in no particular order here we go.
Starting with fact number one and that is Anna.
My fact this week is that the Holy Roman Emperor once made every citizen of Milan
pluck a fig from a mules genitals with their teeth.
Okay. The sandwich to unpack here. Yeah, my main question is about the dynamic of
as in how do you get a fig into a mules genitals? Like which bit of the genitals is it going into?
Oh well I'm so glad you've asked both of those questions actually because I do need to be more
specific. I believe it was the anus according to most sources which we're counting as part of the
genitals. Is that a genital? Yeah, I definitely not. No way. It's called a genitals. You can't
generate new life. Sorry. Anna, we've got a lot of explaining to do. Right. You could tuck it
between the penis and the ball bag I suppose. Can I just say I thought it was a female mule no?
Yeah, I thought it was going in the vagina of the mule. Yes. Wow. Some sources say genitals,
some sources say anus basically. Was there one mule which stood in for every citizen of Milan?
Because that's a huge queue. It's a long queue, right. You'd have to set up a city-wide system.
They didn't do this over one day, Andy. This wasn't like a...
This was a years-long process. It's like jury duty.
That's it, yeah. You get a letter. Oh man. What is it? You're going to war? No, worse.
Okay, look. I have one more question. All right, great. I think it's more important.
He's the Holy Roman Emperor. Why is he doing this kind of shit?
Didn't have much on. Didn't have much on. No, this was Milan. It was causing him,
Frederick I, Frederick Barbarossa, a lot of problems. This was 1162 and it was all full of
uprisings. Basically, he sent his wife went to visit Milan and the people of Milan
disliked Frederick so much that they humiliated his wife, tied her to a mule and made her ride
backwards on this mule around the city. He, Fred, was like, "You humiliated my wife to make up for
it. I'm going to make you all do this thing." Actually, in answer to your very good question,
Andy, about how you get the fig into the mules, anus, or vagina, sources differ,
you would have to put it back into the genital with your tea so they have to block it out and
then return it. That was my other question. Do you get to eat the fig afterwards?
I'm afraid, I think it's the same fig. That's true, massive fig expenditure.
That's true. Oh, yeah. You don't want to be at the back of that queue with a manky fig.
That would be disgusting. Anna, in fairness to the people of Milan, they were being
sieged by the Holy Roman Emperor at the time. It wasn't like they just humiliated his wife just
because they didn't like him. It was more because he was attacking their city.
It was bigger than that, yeah. He was besieging their city. He was having a lot of problems at
the time with various cities he was supposed to rule. Yeah, the Milanese did not like him.
Actually, as part of this uprising, the three wise men were moved. Milan was known for having
the skulls of the three wise men. Then, when Frederick one beat them down, he had the skulls
removed and moved to Cologne Cathedral, and they're still there today. It's quite amazing.
This is like 1,000 years ago, almost. I think if everyone was doing it, I would have no problem
in doing the fig challenge. I mean, it would feel like the ice bucket challenge.
They were actually also raising money for charity, weren't they?
It was a donkey sanctuary, in fact. You had to nominate five people to remove
the fig from the mules genitals afterwards. Maybe there was a sense of solidarity amongst them,
because they'd all suffered together. What they had to do was they had to get it out with their
teeth and then take it to the executioner, who was the person who would have beheaded them
if they failed. Then they had to say, "Echo il ficko," as in, "Look, here's the fig," and then
they had to replace it. Apparently, in Milan, after that, sticking your thumb between your
middle finger and your index finger, I guess, like I'm doing right now,
is a sign of it's called "known as making the fig," or it was known as making the fig,
and it was an insult based on this. That's still an insult, quite a lot
around the world, actually, doing the fig, because it looks a bit like a vagina. If you do it,
that's why. And it's still in Russia, for instance, if you do that. It doesn't mean
like a really, really bad insult these days. It's just a bit like giving the V's kind of thing.
It does mean your mother's vagina. In Madagascar, I read that if you went like that,
you are going, "It's not screw you. It's your mother's vagina."
I can't speak for Madagascar, but I've had it done to me in Russia. That's all I can say.
Because my father-in-law did it to me, and apparently it's not a massive insult.
It doesn't mean get away from my daughter. Sure, that's what Polina told you.
He was actually complimenting you, Jack.
This is a, there's a weird thing, because in Italy, there's a really weird linguistic
confusion, right? Because if you say, I hope I get this right, "Bella fico" means nice fig,
but "Bella figa" means beautiful women's genitals. So there's a weird verbal link between the two
as well. And the BBC, a really old BBC talk board, had a thing about someone who'd been
trying to order figs in Italy, and they said, "I started off by asking how old was the figae,
how much I loved it when it was fresh, as long as it wasn't too old, how I loved to eat it,
and on and on. The lady was clearly shocked, but I kept going on and on trying to explain how much
I liked it." Jesus. It's very much got genital associations around the world, hasn't it? And
it looks like a, famously like a, look, we all know what it looks like, guys. We don't need to,
and he's going to that. Can I just, I just wanted to say one more thing I really enjoyed about this
besieging that Frederick was doing, because I didn't know about this. So he was really into
underground warfare. So when he was besieging Kramer, which he besieged before Milan and Milan,
he dug a lot of tunnels. And I didn't realize in medieval times, tunnel warfare was a huge deal.
So you're besieging a city and you dig a tunnel underneath, and then you counter mine from the
other end, as in you dig your tunnel and you would meet in the middle. And then two enemies on,
it would have to be big enough to take you on horseback. And then the two enemies meet in this
tunnel. The horses would go down into the tunnel and they'd meet on horseback. And this was a means
of combat. And loads of people did it. So Agincourt, they had a lot of these. They were dug by the
Welsh miners. Honestly, so what happens is you've got two armies coming at each other. And it is
big enough to get a horse down, but only one horse. So it means that the person at the front of your
battle can only fight against the person at the front of their battle. And then whoever wins that,
then fights against the next person in the queue. And you just keep going down and going down until
that. It's like playing conkers, basically. It's extraordinary. And the other thing is that
you would have these tunnels going towards the city, but you might also dig a tunnel
underneath the other person's tunnel so that they kind of fall through it and then get trapped and
then you can kill them. And I read once that that's where the word "under mine" comes from, although
I'm not sure if that's right. That's very famous for having a very impressive fight in one, apparently.
And something else you could do if they dug a tunnel under yours and popped out on your side.
They often had big tubs of boiling urine and water that they'd throw on you as you emerged.
You could only come out one at a time. I can't believe they met each other though. You would
assume it would be a bit like, you know, when you close your eyes and you have to get your index
fingers to touch each other and they miss. I would assume it must have been so awful at the time.
You can hear each other digging underground if you keep quiet. You can hear the noise.
Each team had a golden mould, didn't they, which could hear where the other team was coming in.
Above the gates of Milan, until the 1500s, there was a work of art showing a woman lifting her
skirt and clipping her pubic hair with a large pair of shears. So whenever you went to Milan,
this is the first thing you would see. And no one really knew why it was there,
but they think that probably it dates from this particular siege by Frederick Barbarossa.
And it could be that when Barbarossa was attacking the city, one of the women at the
walls did this and they decided to memorialise it. It could be because Milan asked for some
money from the Empress Lea Bissa, who was in Constantinople at the time, and was extremely
wealthy and really important Empress. And they wanted money from her to try and stop
Frederick from attacking the city. But she said no. And so they did this picture of the woman
as kind of an insult to her. But no one really knows why it was there. But then it got taken down
by Cardinal Carlo Baremio in the 1500s because he wanted his eyes only to gaze on the stars of
heaven. As opposed to the towering genitals and pubic hair over giant women, I suppose that's
very not. He didn't include that part in the quote, but of course he would have said it.
Implied. Barbarossa, by the way, died because he didn't want to queue. He hated queuing.
That's like you. You hate queuing. I hate queuing because I always think at the front of it I'm
going to have to pluck a fig from a mules vagina. But they were going to cross the river and he
didn't want to queue. So he went across the river in a bit where you're not supposed to. He didn't
want to go over the bridge or whatever. And he drowned. Oh, Barbie. I've read a bunch of theories
about how he died, which I think that's the sort of most accepted version of it. But it is shrouded
in a bit of mystery. And one of the most confusing things that I read was that it was a foot of
water, which is very hard to drown in. Supposedly that could have happened because he was wearing
such heavy armour that he was just pulled down. And there was also theories of fatigue
that he had actually gone just for a wash and that he was so tired that the sun just kind of
just he lost energy. But yeah, what a way to go. The Nazis thought he was still alive because there's
like an ancient idea that he's like King Arthur and he lives in a mountain. And whenever Germany's
about to fall, he'll come out and save everyone. And he can't leave at the moment because his
beard is stuck in a table. So it's grown through the table and he doesn't have scissors, but he
does have a boy who's loose, who he sends out to check how Germany's doing every so often. So he'll
just wave him out and he'll come back. Is this real? It's not right. Well, according to the Nazis,
it was real. They would have been so disappointed if he came out and said, "Right, don't worry,
Germany's going to be safe. All I need is 250,000 mules. I need a large queuing system and I need
a bunch of figs." But then of course, that's why they called, you'll know, and the Operation
Barbarossa, which was the attack on the Soviet Union that was named after him because he was such a
top guy according to the Nazis. And also another Operation Barbarossa where they killed all the
intellectuals. That was also named after him. I can't believe the sentence was just said,
"Who believes us? The Nazis and Dan." That's not something I want to be informed about.
But can I just say that by saying who believes us, the Nazis and Dan, I'm saying that you're not a
Nazi. Otherwise, I would say the Nazis, including Dan, who is also a Nazi. He just shows similar
ideas and believes. Do you know what happened to Barbarossa after he died? Oh, what? He got
his beard stuck in a table somewhere. He's still waiting for those shears from that poor pubic-haired
woman. If you don't believe the theory of Dan and his Nazi buddies, then this is what happened to him.
So his body was apparently, they tried to preserve it in vinegar. Again, like a conker,
but it didn't work. And he was buried in three different places. This sounds like such a difficult
confusing burial process, because his flesh was put in the Church of St Peter and Antioch,
his bones in the Cathedral of Tyre, and his heart and inner organs in another church that was in
Tarsus. But that's a rough gig, having to separate the flesh from the bones. You wouldn't want the
flesh, I think. Oh, no. I was just going to say, I think the Antioch's got a raw deal, because that's
just a pile of grossness, isn't it? Speaking of flesh, Ficks have flesh. So shall we talk about
Ficks? Yeah. Yeah. Why not? Why not? They're very, very important. Up to 70% of the animal life in
the rainforest depends on fig trees, because they're so high in energy. They fruit loads of times
every year. They grow really well in that kind of environment. And basically, they're eaten by
lots of things, and then those things are eaten by lots of things, et cetera, et cetera. So without
Ficks, we wouldn't have lots of other rainforest-y stuff. We wouldn't be here today.
They're amazing, aren't they? I'd never looked into Ficks before. So I read a quote from Charles
Dickens, which he said, "Train up a fig tree in the way it should go, and when you are old, sit under
the shade of it." And the idea is that you can push them into a territory, and that's the direction
they'll grow, which is a thing that happens. A lot of people end up making bridges out of Ficks by
positioning the direction, and they grow across these sort of river passes, and that's your fig
bridge, which has just naturally grown. It's astonishing. The photos are amazing, if anyone
wants to see. Yeah, it's mostly, it's in North India, isn't it? And it's basically suspension
bridges, which massively pre-date our suspension bridges. And they're so long. I think the longest
is over 50 meters long, and over 500 years old, because they do, yeah, they've got these incredibly
strong roots that kind of, they weave around each other. And I think a lot of the bridges
have a handrail. They will have trained some of the routes to grow into a handrail as well.
Amazing. It's a long wait for your bridge, though, isn't it, when you've commissioned a guy?
Yeah, Frederick would not have had the patience to wait for that bridge.
So Ficks, yeah, they are, Ficks themselves are extraordinary as well in the way that they breed.
Every fig that you eat has at least one corpse in it, probably lots of corpses inside it.
Is that all of the figs that you eat, like the ones from the supermarket?
Oh, technically, probably every fig you eat doesn't have a corpse in it, because these
days they're often done artificially. But if you're eating a fig that has been naturally
propagated, it's got at least one corpse in it. Because the way they breed is an extraordinary
way where every fig, and there are, I think there are more than 750 species of fig, has its own
specific fig wasp. And the way the figs are pollinated is that a female wasp will burrow
inside the fig. And weirdly, a fig is an inside out flower. So the flower is on the inside,
the bit that needs pollinating, burrows inside the fig, and then she lays her eggs, and then they
spawn, and then they shag each other and fertilize each other. And then the males,
the male siblings, crawl up and make a little tunnel out of the fig so the females can escape.
And then the males die, sacrifice themselves, females fly off, and then they go and pollinate
the next fig. Beautiful, a beautiful story. It's amazing. It's so cool.
You've kind of glossed over the incest bit, because a lot of the wasps that hatch are siblings.
Reasonably, I think, to gloss over that bit. I think all of them are siblings, are they not?
No, they're not, because you can get several different wasps crawling inside a fig,
which will then die, but they will have laid their eggs around inside the little seed bits.
It's not frowned upon in the fig wasp world in the same way it is for us. And that's why there
are lots of corpses often, is that the ladies kill each other, don't they? Because if more than one
mother gets inside, then they have a duel to the death very often. To make sure that only one
mother can lay her eggs. But then the poor mums of figs amputate their wings as they go in,
right? So the mothers can never leave. So they're doomed. And then tenor as well.
Have you heard of Mike Shanahan? Oh, yes. Only right.
Yeah, yeah. He came on our radio show a few years ago. He is amazing. He knows more about figs
than anyone I've met knows about any other subjects, apart from perhaps
Erica McAllister and flies. That's the only other person I can compare him to.
Yeah, or Dan Schreiber and Nazi sacred myths, far from those guys. So yeah, he's written this book
called God's Wasps and Stranglers, which is unbelievable. I've only read a chapter of it,
but it is so interesting. If you're interested in figs, this is the
book to read on the subject, basically. I actually found something that I think Mr.
Shanahan got wrong in his book. Yeah. Well, it was just we were talking about royals and we're
talking about, so Barbarossa and the fig. I found a modern royal that was associated with the fig,
which is Queen Elizabeth II, who was asleep in a fig tree when she found out she became queen.
Excuse me. Sorry. Our current queen was asleep in a fig tree. She was famously in Africa, wasn't
she, when she found out and it was a tree house, was it? I think exactly. No, didn't she crawled
inside a fig? That's right. Unfortunately, she lost her wings and antennae on the way,
but a nearby aquari was able to pry her out. Yeah, but let's gloss over the incest for a second.
She, yeah, she was staying in a tree house and the story, the sentences that she went up the tree
princess and she came down a queen. But I think that they actually found out quite,
quite some 40 kilometers away from the actual tree where they were staying because they were out and
about and Philip delivered it in a sort of cabin. So it's not quite true that she was in a fig tree,
which would have been fantastic. Wow. That's so many preconceptions shattered there. Everyone at
home has to adjust the whole belief system. Okay, it is time for fact number two and that is James.
Okay, my fact this week is that library books can set on fire if you put them in the microwave.
It's ruined many a dinner for me, certainly. All my cookbooks have gone up in flames.
That's when it says cookbook, it doesn't mean cook this book.
This is more of a public service announcement than a fact and it comes via a library in Michigan,
the Kent District Library, that's asking people to stop microwaving their books to prevent the
spread of coronavirus. And that is because they contain a little chip in them, which is a kind
of chip we've mentioned before called an RFID chip, which is what you get in your roaster card or in
your contactless credit card or in your massive seal that you use to spy on the United States if
you're a roaster. And they're in also in these library books and they're made of metal. And if
you put metal in the microwave, a lot of the time it will set on fire and people have been doing this
with library books and they've tweeted a load of pictures of very burnt library books where people
have been trying to sterilize them. So these chips, you can't put them in the microwave.
Are they oven chips? Very nice. Very good. But no, don't put them in the oven either.
It's a very funny joke, Hannah, but this is not a funny matter.
It's not a laughing matter. Got it. I didn't know people have been doing this.
Yeah. Well, they don't fully know why they're doing it as well, as in the article that I read
sort of suggested that they're a bit bemused. It's not as if there was a ginormous moment on
the internet where everyone said, "Do this to clean it." So some things popped up on a site
somewhere where enough people in Michigan have seen it and done it.
Yeah. I mean, there is a fair amount of logic behind it, isn't it? Microwaves, in theory,
could kill viruses, I suppose, and bacteria. Yeah, they heat things up really high temperatures.
But it's just that's not what they're made for. So don't put stuff in the microwave
that's not made to go in a microwave. That's basically the tip.
Yeah. We think the best way to sterilize books is probably just to leave them for a couple of
days, don't we? And most libraries just now leave them for two or three days.
Yeah. So COVID-19 will die after a certain number of days. I think in perfect lab conditions,
it's kind of over a week. But in real life, you're not living in a bell jar with a perfect
amount of air and no UV light and stuff like that. So if you leave a library book for a few days,
it should sterilize by itself. They did discuss, I think, UV-like treatment,
because people kept on saying, "Could you treat things with UV?" And it was pointed out as well
as being quite carcinogenic. So you don't want it to be expensive. You would need to treat every
single page of a book. So it would involve shining UV. Imagine getting more on peace back.
That's going to take two or three hours to UV treat. And it's not like you can just get a little
UV torch and just shine it on and that'll kill it. You need a special, very high energy UV light
in order to kill viruses. I was looking into sort of library scares and things like this.
And that was a really interesting account of worry about reading contagion. In fact,
there's a book about it called "Reading Contagion" because it was reported in 1911
in a library journal that books seem well adapted for carrying smallpox, measles,
scarlet fever, trochoma, ditheria, erycephalus, dysentery, typhoid, antipirkyloces.
Erycephalus, really? Erycephalus is in there, yeah.
That's it again. Erycephalus. Can I just explain that while we're laughing at that?
So I'll probably cut this out. But in our live show last year, we had a spelling competition
where Andy would say very unusual words and Dan would try and pronounce them,
and then the audience would try and spell them. And Erycephalus was one of those,
and I'd never heard the word before that gig, and now it seems to come up virtually every week.
It's following us around. And I'm still saying it, Erycephalus.
And this was a fear because some readers would lick their fingers as they were turning pages.
So people got very worried about this. And there was one scientist who decided to experiment on it,
and he did it by taking public library books, cutting out the dirtiest bits,
I mean the physically dirtiest bits, not the rudest bits in the book,
so that he'd have much wear. And then he would soak the pages in saline solution,
then he would spin that liquid with the sort of gloopy matter from the library books in it,
then he would inject that saline solution into guinea pigs.
And amazingly, all the guinea pigs died. All 40 of the guinea pigs he tried and undied.
That's evidence that they're catching germs in the book, rather than just that he just injected
them with saline solution. Well, they did die of proper things, but it turns out,
I mean, if no one reads library books like that, no one does that with library books.
No, no, it would be an unusual thing to do. And also, they don't let you return them after you've
whisked your washing machine, injected yourself with parts of them.
Well, do you know in Boston, the Boston Library, how they clean their books when they get returned?
They have a mini book-sized car wash that they send the books through.
So it's got all these compartments, it's on a conveyor belt, and it can do 12 books a minute.
They don't use it on the extremely rare books, it's just for more modern books,
and it's a dusting system as they come through, spinning brush bars and so on.
You can watch videos of it online, and that's how they clean their books.
That's not to sterilize them or anything, is it? That's to get rid of all the dust and...
Yes, but anything that's returned just for maintenance, basically.
But yes, not sterilization.
There was this scare about book germs, seemed to go on for a long time.
So it started in the 1870s, I think, and it lasted, as you say, well, until the 20th century.
And in 1907, there was a law in the UK passed that said if anyone was ill,
you were not allowed to borrow a book from a library or return a book to a library.
And they tried, yeah, all sorts of experiments to figure out if they were spreading germs,
didn't they? They got lots of doctors involved. There was another one,
as well as the guinea pig one, where they had monkeys drink milk off a germy book,
and then see if anything went wrong with them.
Again, difficult to return that monkey poo-drenched, milky book to the library afterwards.
I wonder if that law from 1907 still holds or not. Probably not the same law,
but I'm pretty sure there's a law that's around now that if you have plague, for instance,
and you get in a taxi by law, you have to announce it to the taxi driver before you go anywhere.
And I think it's the same public health act that those two things are from.
So I wonder if you have to announce to a librarian that you have a certain illness
before you give your library books back. I don't know.
Because it was basically someone died, didn't they? There was a Nebraska librarian that died
of tuberculosis, and that kind of made everyone think, oh, shit, there could be something in this.
But do you know the Spanish flu from 1918 or 1919?
They thought that that could travel on telegraph wires because a load of telegraph operators got
the disease at the same time. But obviously, it was because they were all in a room together.
There was also one where a load of bank tellers in a bank got sick at the same time,
and they thought that maybe it had come with the money. So it was like,
they thought that whatever was coming into that building might have been what caused the illness
rather than one of the people giving it to everyone else.
Hey, when we were on tour last year in America, we were in New York,
and I went to the New York Public Library, and it is stunning. Have you guys been
when we were there or been any other time? It's really, it's just this majestic building,
and I saw that they had a lot of sort of relics of literature in there. So I started looking into
it, see what else they have. And there's some great things about it. For example, there was one
customer, as it were, someone who came every day and sat at the same desk for 52 years,
and that was from 1923 to 1975. And it was the guy, it was a man called Norbert Pearlroth,
who was the head researcher for Ripley's Believe It or Not. And he used to sit in that library
every single day or most days at the same desk doing his research. And because the research
available in that library is astonishing, they have the largest collection of restaurant menus
in the world, for example. They have 40,000 restaurant menus, and it's used by chefs all
over the world to sort of find old ideas for what they can do with their menus. But it's also used
by biologists, marine biologists, to study fish populations to see if there was a spike in what
was being eaten in the restaurants around New York at the time. Yeah, so it's used for sort of
understanding ecology as well. There's one library designer who designed libraries like the Qatar
National Library, which is incredible. And also the Seattle Library, which is quite famous,
I think it has a spiral of ongoing books. So you walk from the bottom to the top and the library
shelves never end. Anyway, this architect is called, he's a Dutch guy called Rem Coolhouse.
I think his name. It's Coolhouse. What a name for an architect. What a great name.
Hey, Coolhouse, Coolhouse. Yeah, I hope he just hears that all the time.
Just as this fact was about microwaving library books, I've got one thing on
microwaves. I was looking for interesting microwave stories and things you shouldn't
microwave. And in 2017, there was a man who had to be freed by firefighters after cementing
his own head into a microwave. He was called Jay Swingler, 22, from the UK. He and his friends,
they mixed up seven bags of polyfiller and they poured it around his head inside the microwave,
which was protected by a plastic bag. It wasn't stupid. All right. And unaccountably,
then dried and they couldn't get him out. They tried for an hour and a half to get him out
before calling the fire brigade. This was all for YouTube and the emergency services turned up
and they sort of chipped the microwave apart. They destroyed the microwave and they then didn't
find him very generously because they assessed that he had been at risk of dying. Sorry, I thought
you said they didn't find him. Yeah. They just keep chipping and chipping. He must be in here somewhere.
And I was later interviewed and he said he hadn't wasted the emergency services time
because they saved my life, whereas I say that he did waste their time.
There was an interview with Robert Pattinson earlier this year in April with GQ,
which I assume they must have done over Zoom or over Skype or something because
he's in a house which appears to be a like a hired house rather than his own.
And while they're interviewing him, he's making some pasta in the microwave.
Now, he has come up with a new way of making pasta. It's a bit like a pop tart,
but you make your pasta and then you put a load of American cheese and sugar
with it and then you cover it in cornflakes. And apparently it's the most delicious thing
that Robert Pattinson has ever eaten. So he's making this while he's being interviewed by GQ
and they're asking him about it and he puts all the cornflakes on the outside and then he puts
it all in tinfoil and he says, "Are you allowed to put tinfoil in the oven?" And the GQ guy says,
"Yeah, you can put tinfoil in the oven. You're just not allowed to put it in a microwave."
And then Robert Pattinson goes, "I think this is an oven." And so then he puts his
like pop tart thing in what he thinks is an oven, but which is actually a microwave.
And they're still doing the interview at this point. And then about a couple of minutes later,
the whole thing explodes. The microwave explodes and all the electricity goes off
in Robert Pattinson's house. And I've got to say, this is the best interview I've ever read
in my whole life. And has anyone checked on Robert Pattinson recently because I'm a bit worried
about it? My brother-in-law, Charbell, works in hotels and he once got a call up to a room
because the guy who was up there had ordered room service, had his food, but clearly hadn't
finished eating it. So he called Charbell up, Charbell entered the room and he said,
"I need your help. I was trying to reheat my food, but I can't get it back out of the microwave."
But what he'd done was put it into the safe. And he'd locked his Bolognese or whatever he had.
That's fine. So the code was probably three minutes or whatever. That's so funny.
Okay, it is time for fact number three and that is Andy. My fact is that one of the kings of Leon
was called Alfonso the slobberer. The kings of where they're still going. What do you mean was?
Yeah. Well, I'm glad you pointed that out. Obviously kings of Leon, great band, three of them,
Jared and two others. None of them is called Alfonso the slobberer. It turns out that before
the band even thought about forming, there was a kingdom called Leon. And that's what they're
very cleverly referring to in their name. And Leon is in the... It was a huge chunk of the
Iberian Peninsula, so Northwest Spain and what is now Portugal too. And it had a king in the
mid to late 12th century called Alfonso. And Alfonso was an angry guy. He would have fits of
rage that made him foam at the mouth. And that's why he got his charming nickname Alfonso the slobberer.
Wow. We do know a bit more about him. We know he married his cousin twice, not the same cousin,
different cousins. So he had a type. And annulled them because of it, right? It's so bizarre that
you can make that mistake. Like he marries a cousin and then he had, I think, three children with the
first one. And then suddenly it was like, oh, damn it, it's incest, not allowed to do it. So it had
to be annulled. And then did the same thing again, had five children with the next one. Annulled again.
I think the second one might have been his first cousin once removed.
Yes, you're right. It was. But I didn't know this. It's so interesting. I had no idea how strict the
rules on incest actually were at certain points in history. Well, we usually gloss over the incest on
this podcast. So the church had banned marriages for relations up to seven degrees removed,
which meant that you had to count seven generations back. And it was illegal to,
I mean, who on earth knows seven generations back? It meant it was illegal to marry anyone closer than
your seventh cousin. So it must have been an enormous hassle. If you fancy someone,
you had to really trace, you had to go on, who do you think you are?
Alfonso also formed the Cortes de Leon in 1188, which brought together all the nobles in that
area. And some people say it was the first parliament in the history of Western Europe.
So that's one good thing you might have done. There were quite a few kings of Leon
over the years. Henry the impotent, he was one. He was supposedly impotent as a result of a curse
by the Bishop of Toledo. The curse was called frigidi et malificiati. And it's quite a common curse
that you would do in medieval times where you would like make someone impotent just by reading
out this curse. Although he did have a daughter, so it might not have worked. Although the argument
was, if he'd had this curse, it can't possibly be his daughter. So he must have
been someone else's child. It's always around it. Maybe the curse wears off after a while.
Alfonso could have done with a bit of that curse. I mean, he had eight children within his two
marriages and then he had another 10 children outside his marriages. There you go. He needed
a bit of frigidiati et malificiati or whatever. I read another guy, another king, who was in
the 10th century called DeSancho. Sancho the fat, he was known as. Yes, he was also King of Leon,
wasn't he? Yeah, King of Leon. Interesting story. He basically was said to have been so overweight
that it made it hard for him to walk. He couldn't ride a horse. He couldn't pick up a sword.
And so he lost the throne as a result. He was disposed as a sort of weak king. And his grandmother
took him to a doctor. And the story goes is that the doctor sewed his lips shut, except for a tiny
little hole to put a straw through to give him what was effectively the first weight loss diet,
which was you can only drink stuff through this straw as your food. And he eventually lost half
of his weight to the point where he could ride a horse again and pick up a sword. And he regained
the throne because he came back as a strong king. He was immediately deposed because of his speech
impediment. At least he wasn't slubbering with that little hole. He did have a serious problem
though. I think the contemporary accounts say that he was, well, in today's measurements,
is 38 stone, which is too heavy. No horse can take that. And I quite like that the guy,
it was just such a testament to what a mixed place Europe was then that his grandmother walked him,
sort of wobbled him along to a Jewish doctor, this guy was, who worked for the Muslim ruler,
Abdul Rahman. And obviously he was Christian. It was such a melting pot. And yeah, cured him.
And it's good because he replaced or don't know the wicked. It sounds like if it's between the fat
and the wicked, you'd probably go the fat, wouldn't you? Yeah, unless it was like a really kind
of positive thing like wicked. Yeah. And also, I suppose Sancho could be fat with a pH. He might
have just dropped some heavy beats. Yeah, true. They were all DJs, the Kings of Leon. Oh yeah,
if they were all DJs, then what about Bermuda the Goutie? I don't want to watch his set.
There were quite a few Queens of Leon, as well as the Kings of Leon. Joanna the Mad,
she was one of them. She was married to Philip the Handsome. She really liked Philip the Handsome,
but unfortunately he died. And then she kind of lived with his coffin and would open up the coffin
every now and then so she could kiss his feet. That's why they called her Joanna the Mad.
Actually, Alfonso the Slobberer wanted to leave his kingdom to his two daughters,
so Sancho and Dolce. He left officially after he died. He left it to his two daughters,
but basically the people of Leon were not really up for female leaders. And the daughters, and I
think I would have done exactly the same thing, weren't really up for having a big fight about it.
So basically they met with their half-brother's mum. So these three women met and they negotiated,
look, we'll give this chap the kingdom and can we just have a bunch of castles and some money?
And it was called the Pax of the Mothers. They just went and lived the life of Riley somewhere.
Yeah, it's a good call. Because being a king or queen in those days...
Very stressful. And the nicknames alone would have done you in.
You got some more nicknames? Yeah, I found a few. I strayed off territory a bit away from
Leon and I just went to other regal nicknames. So there was a Byzantine emperor who was called
Constantine the name of shit. Copra Nimos is what that was at the time. And it's allegedly because
he shat in the font during his baptism. Oh, yeah. I know. So it's kind of a clever joke, actually.
It is a bit like someone at school, like being on a school trip and having to shit in a bag
and being called shitbag for the rest of school. For the rest of the rain, they're rain as emperor
as well. Terrible. Yeah. But that would have happened when they were like less than one or
just for a baptism. I'm not saying it's fair, Dan. I'm not saying it's fair, but I am saying it's
funny. James II of England was known as James the bishop or something. Was he by the Irish?
I think the Irish called him that or something. Yeah, because they wanted him to hang around and
fight for them. And then he fled to France, quite famously disappeared and just gave up the throne
to William of Orange. So they were like, well, you're a piece of shit. That's how he went down.
I have a quick study about nicknames in general. Oh, yeah. So there was a study by Queen Mary
University and they were looking into nicknames and online dating and how you can make yourself
most effective, which I know is not of any special interest to any of you three. Well,
I just need to know, on my Tinder profile, should I call myself James the slobber or not?
Right, exactly. So they studied loads of different research papers. They studied
like lots and lots and lots of previous papers on online attraction. And it's quite funny, just
the things they found out or the headline results were quite obvious, seeming things.
So they found that nicknames with negative connotations like little or bug are linked with
inferiority. So you shouldn't pick them. And they said playful screen names were good. So
the name fun to be with, that's the number two. And then the letter B was universally attractive,
they claimed. They also said pick something near the beginning of the alphabet. Because if like
all sensible people, you arrange your dating profiles you're looking at in alphabetical order,
you don't want to be lost in the bottom of the pile.
So does that mean you should call yourself Andy?
Like in the Edinburgh Festival programme. You always have like the A, A, A, A company show.
Exactly like that.
Cause they're either gouty, not getting any dates.
I've just got a few more nicknames I found of rulers throughout history.
So there's, you know, so many, Manuel the sausage maker, Wilfred the hairy,
Half Dan the bad entertainer. That's not a good one.
No, come on.
Yeah. King Dan.
Actually is your online nickname, isn't it?
So yeah, he was from Norway. He was the son of Einstein the fart.
And yeah, so he was very generous paying his soldiers, but he was very bad in providing food
and entertainment for them.
You buy your own food and entertainment if you've got a good salary.
Borrowed Half Dan.
Okay, it's time for our final fact of the show. And that's my fact.
My fact this week is that there is a Chinese poem made up of 92 characters
in which every word is pronounced sh. The poem is called the lion eating poet in the Stonedan,
or sh, sh, sh, sh, sh.
Sure.
Now, for any Mandarin listeners out there, just to quickly say, I grew up in Hong Kong
and I was taught Mandarin throughout school, but I have a foreign Mandarin accent.
So apologies if I butchered that slightly. It's a very hard sentence to say.
The poem is even harder to say.
Dan, that is an easy sentence to say.
Sure, sure, sure, sure, sure.
Charlie is the one that we could know.
No, because you're saying it with one tone.
And it's tonally.
You just sound like a librarian there, James.
Wait a minute. So when you said it, it sounded to me, to my ears,
it sounded like they were all the same tone.
Sure, sure.
So sure is neutral.
Sure is the downward.
Sure is the upward and sure.
So those are four different sure's that you could be saying as a result,
which is why it's it's if you say this poem out loud,
even the best Chinese speaker saying it out loud,
no one will know what they're saying because despite the four tones,
you can still have about 15 different words which have that tone of sure,
for let's say going on the upward sound.
So it is totally bemusing to listen to it out loud.
Isn't it true?
It works in character form.
I might be wrong about this because obviously,
I don't know anything about this language,
but is it not true that in classic Chinese, it works way better?
And in modern Mandarin and modern Cantonese,
it really doesn't work at all.
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah, but the cool thing about classical Chinese that I never knew this is that it's
quite similar to modern standard Arabic today,
but the way classical Chinese was used from about sort of the eighth century
until about 100 years ago.
It was that it was a way to communicate between people who didn't speak the same language.
So the like China, Japan, Korea, Vietnam,
all these areas in East Asia spoke different languages,
but they all wrote in classical Chinese.
And so they have this thing called brush talk,
where if you met a foreigner, you couldn't chat to them,
but you could pass notes.
And so you'd meet a foreigner and you'd do brush talk.
So I mean, it must have been extremely arduous,
taken a lot longer,
but you could just have a secret passing notes in class chat.
Wow.
That's pretty cool, isn't it?
It's like when you go to an airport,
and the word for parking is the same in every country.
It's like if everything was like that.
Exactly.
Could I quickly give a bit of a brief explanation about this poem
and the author of it?
Because this was written by a man called Yuan Run Chao,
and he's an incredible guy.
He wrote it in the 1930s,
and it was done as a sort of linguistic demonstration
to show that you could manage to stretch out this one word into a 92-word poem.
He was an amazing character.
He moved over to America to study mathematics and physics at Cornell University,
and he eventually did philosophy at Harvard.
And he became a huge influence
within the world of Chinese language for the Western world.
So when he was back in China,
if Bertrand Russell came over,
he would act as his interpreter.
Back in America,
he recorded the standard Chinese pronunciation
gramophone records that people would get
that would be distributed nationally.
So people would understand a unified pronunciation
of Chinese and America.
He translated Alice in Wonderland.
He wrote pop hits back in China.
I mean, he was this incredible character.
Have you heard his pop hit, by the way?
I haven't, actually.
And weirdly, he wrote the music, not the lyrics for it.
It's not exactly the Kings of Leon.
Yeah, 1930s Chinese pop is not what you'd expect.
Very repetitive lyrics, isn't it?
It's like the too unlimited of its time.
His wife was amazing.
His wife invented stir fry, which is quite amazing.
She wrote a book called How to Cook and Eat in Chinese
in 1946, which went through loads and loads of editions.
What a specific title for a book.
It must have had a very quick sell-by date.
It was.
It was like the book of the year 2019.
No one bought it after that year.
But she wrote a load of techniques
that they used to cook in China.
But her terms are now used quite commonly in America.
So the term stir fry was invented by her
and her daughter as well, who did a lot of the translation.
What's quite interesting and ironic
is that people use this poem as an argument
against writing the Chinese language in the Roman characters.
Because it's way more complicated than that.
And if you start putting them into Latin characters,
then you just can't get the nuances.
But of course, this guy, Yuan Ren Chao,
he was very much pro translation.
He was a translator.
So it's quite ironic that that has been used as an argument.
But it is true that it's so hard to write down in Roman script.
So there was actually someone who wrote beneath a YouTube video
who was Taiwanese and I think was talking about
language spoken in Fujian.
And said that the sentence grandfather hit his head
on a metal tin and grandfather felt giddy
is the word gong written eight times basically.
So like gong is grandfather and then various other...
Wow.
So much fun word play.
That's such a common word.
Wait, which language did you say that was, Anna?
That was in Taiwanese and in Fujian.
And I spent about an hour this morning trying to practice
the sentence, "The horse is slow, mother tells off the horse."
Is it all ma's?
Yeah, I think it's like
ma, ma, ma, ma, ma.
How does that sound, Dan?
Nonsense.
Well, it would sound nonsense anyway, as is the point of the sure, sure, sure.
Like it's impossible to grip onto.
You need to see that written in order to go,
"Okay, ma, mother, ma, horse, ma, slow."
That's where that would make sense for you.
That's why it's so hard.
Have you heard of the Hmong language of Vietnam?
Yeah.
That's got eight tones in it.
Whoa.
Yeah.
So the word "Paul," depending on what you're putting,
where you're putting the tone,
can mean either "female," "throw," "thorn," "pancreas,"
"to see," or "paternal grandmother."
So if you want to say,
"I can see my paternal grandmother's pancreas."
They are brilliant, these little kind of oddities, though, aren't they?
Because most languages around the world have something like that.
So in the Ojibwe language of Canada,
which was one of the biggest First Nations languages,
there's a phrase, "Gada, na, na, na, ah, na, na,"
which means we should really go and get Anna, shouldn't we?
No.
Yeah.
So I think we might start using that one
whenever Anna's late to the hotel lobby before we start.
Can you say it again, James?
It's "Gada, na, na, na, ah, na, na."
I'm going to start singing that at the end of "Hey Jude."
Every time someone sings "Hey Jude,"
that turns up going, "What? What? I'm here."
The drummer of the band, Emperor Yes, that plays our theme tune,
he had a song that he put out called "Aneek,"
who was someone who used to do our sound checks
for a fish and record our sound.
He named the song "Aneek" after "Aneek,"
and it got picked up by Apple and was used in an advert in Abu Dhabi and Dubai.
It was a very popular song,
and what happens a lot over there is that people use their phone and Shazam
to find out the name of the song,
and so they knew that was going to happen.
And after it had been sold,
it had been pointed out that the name "Aneek"
in Arabic translates as "I fuck,"
and Apple was suddenly pushing a big song of their advert with "I fuck."
So Adam had to desperately change the title of the song
so that by the time it went out and Shazam'd,
it was a different song and he managed to do it
within the space of 24 hours before it went out.
Wow.
But yeah, he almost caused international chaos with it.
Okay, that's it.
That's all of our facts.
Thank you so much for listening.
If you'd like to get in contact with any of us
about the things that we have said over the course of this podcast,
we can be found on our Twitter accounts.
I'm on @Sriberland, Andy.
@AndrewHunterM.
James.
@JamesHarken.
And Anna.
You can email podcast@QI.com.
Yep, but you can go to our group account,
which is @NoSuchThing, or go to our website.
NoSuchThing is at fish.com.
Everything's up there from all of our previous episodes
to links to bits of merchandise you can buy.
Okay, guys, we'll be back again with another episode next week.
Until then, do stay safe, do stay well,
and we're so happy that you continue to listen to us during this time.
Thanks for doing that.
We'll see you again next week.
Goodbye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[MUSIC ENDS]
(upbeat music)